We are creating the greatest scripts
known to man, called the cheat sheet.
By the way, once again, awesomely straight
line freehand, I can't even believe it.
So let's build that right now,
I can feel it,
we don't need any anything
extra at this point.
We know how to do FCF,
we know how to use cheat sheet.
We know how to write scripts,
we know how to interact with Tmux.
We should just be able to
write this thing right away.
All right, so let's just do this.
Here we go, so we're in, we're ready.
We're excited, it's write it.
So once again, let's do that
little shebang, a bang, right?
I think the shebang is very important.
I'm just going to take it out of here and
paste it up here right?
Now let's start with this cheap thing.
So, the first thing we need to do
is we want a list of languages, and
we want a list of coreutils, now, for
now, let's just keep it pretty simple.
So it's like these languages and
go in here and
let's go like this golang ccpp TypeScript
Russ because everybody loves rust.
And there we go, let me tell you
about our Lord and Savior Cargo.
So there we go so
there is our languages, so
now we can have some core a utils,
utils and let's go like this.
Let's go find Xargs sed,
that's awkward, awk, there we go.
We got a couple right there,
it looks really nice.
So now we're gonna take these, and
I'm gonna replace the new lines or
the empty spaces with new lines.
Look at that, where we're just
using tr because tr is funding.
There we go we got that thing I'm gonna
read paste it in their go here we paste in
their perfect.
We have tr we have the new lines,
everything looks good.
Now here's something I always do forget
which is when we do echo if we go
languages.
And then we go core Udall's
what is going to happen?
Awesome, let's find out, let's use that
really cool way to make my program,
executable.
You'll see right here.
I just need to add the word silence
because it keeps printing what
I've already done we don't
need to do that, all right?
We made it executable, I'll open up
a new window, and we'll go cheat sheet,
look at this, okay.
Man, I've screwed everything up,
haven't I?
I forgot the most important part which
is Echo, go here, press the dot.
Awesome, go back here.
There we go,
you'll see right away that everything
looks fantastic up until right here.
We need some new lines.
Now sometimes new lines, there we go.
Let's put it in a new line right here,
why not?
There we go, new line is awesome, right?
Look at that nice little new line.
It just makes me feel all warm and
fuzzy on the inside,
seeing that new line right in there.
So let's fix that,
let's make it into a proper new line.
So now someone did tell me just
recently like two days ago,
I can use dashi I don't
know what dashi does.
I should probably look into
the man pages for that, but
my assumption it means extended.
There we go, it put in the new line for
me, I don't need to use printf,
printf forget parentheses,
bad things happen.
There we go, so now we have our items,
we can easily search for
an easily fuzzy find over.
Now, obviously I could make
this a really big list, but for
the point of this, I don't think I
need to make this as big as possible.
It just needs to be obvious how it works.
So there we go, we have these two things.
And now we need to select
the thing we want.
So really we could do fcf right?
Pipe that into fcf perfect,
so let's just try it out.
Here we go see boom, see?
Beautiful, just always makes me feel so
good when things just work.
How you want them to work.
So now of course, selected,
a little one of those.
There we go, everything is great.
Look at that, we're practically
done with our script at this point.
Now I also learned this recently,
fumbling around,
trying to make this script
a couple of weeks ago.
On twitch when people repetitively told me
that I am a script getting I don't know
what I'm doing.
Well, let me show you,
me knowing what I'm doing.
We're gonna echo out languages, and
we're gonna pipe it into grep, and
we're gonna do qs effectively.
We're making it silent,
we're not returning the results, and
we just want to know did we find it or
did we not find it?
Is selected within the languages, right?
Cuz remember, if we look right here,
when we use languages,
it's like a different way we do it.
It's a space limited item,
when we use a core utils it's
not a space to limited item.
Again, my goodness, so straight.
So here we go, so let's jump into here.
Go right there, let's just prove it right,
let's go like this echo.
I am language, take that f l go here and
then go I am core youdil there we go,
YOUDIL, that's how I say it,
is that normal?
Probably not, all right,
let's cheat sheet, let's try it with sed,
I AM CORE YOUDIL, perfect.
Let's try type script.
I AM LANGUAGE.
My goodness, this is going so good.
Everything's working, by the way,
this is how I developed bash for
anyone that wants to know whenever
I'm doing bash type things.
I go back and forth like this
a lot because bash is just,
I never get it right.
It's like this is like
such a hard language.
I swear it feels so easy, but I get it
wrong every single time we have this.
So now what we need to do is we need
to create that curl command, right?
So let's try this,
let's go like this curl cht, sh.
And then we got our selected, right?
That's the thing we selected.
And since we're under the languages,
all we got to do now is go like this echo.
We need a query don't, we need like
a query So let's make this, read p,
and that's p stands for prompt.
Give me your query, right, there we go.
And we're gonna make it
go into variable query.
So we're gonna echo query down here.
I'm gonna pipe it into tr, right?
And tr we're gonna wanna replace
every space with plus signs.
Now for whatever reason I've decided
right here, I wanna use single quotes,
which just seems asinine
to use single quotes and
one single spot in your entire language.
There we go, so this should do
exactly what we think it should do.
It should curl a cheat sheet
with our selected language and
then have our,
plus the limited query string down here.
We're gonna wanna do it,
just a touch different.
Instead, we're gonna wanna to do that
little till day and go query, right?
Query, awesome, so
that should do the other part of it.
So if we do find exec, that should work.
So let's find out,
let's go like this, let's quit.
Let's go in here, wrong script,
and let's go, I just quit them.
Let's open up them because
it just feels better, right?
There we go, let's go over here.
And let's go to cheat sheet, and
let's use did I add find, I did add find.
So there we go, we got fine,
give me your query.
Let's do exec, all right.
All right, there's everything that
has to do with exec right here.
Awesome, so
like this is really working right?.
I feel like we're really
doing something awesome.
Okay, this is looking good,
but the problem is,
is we're not t mix out of our mind yet.
Right now we're still just
kind of lightly t maxing and
I don't want that I want to just, I just
want this to be the greatest thing ever.
So how should we go about this?
So let's think about that,
we have two options.
We could create a new pain when which
I've never done and someone suggested,
and honestly,
it kinda feels like a great challenge.
So let's try a new pain for a second.
If not, I'll just fall back to
the way I already prepared.
But we're going off script now okay,
people are going all in on this one.
I know this has to be the one,
it has to be split.
Create a new pain by splitting
the target pain, okay?
Does a horizontal split v does
a vertical split, awesome.
Okay, so I'm a vertical kinda guy,
by the way, no and
most normal programs horizontal.
So if two problems, i3 does it backwards.
Vim does it the correct way,
I would consider the verticality versus
horizontal is the direction of the split,
not the resulting boxes.
So an i3, this would be
considered a horizontal split
because it's splitting
the horizontal space.
But it results in a vertical bar,
I always consider that backwards right,
that's totally backwards.
If you want to split vertically,
you literally do vertical,
notice that my bottom line
got highlighted down here.
And this is a vertical split
now that's a horizontal split.
I don't know who you're kidding.
All right, so I assume tmux is correct and
vertical pain literally
means the lines vertical,
not splitting the window, vertically.
There we go, so let's try this out.
So we're go this Tmux split window, and
my guess is it's dash V for vertical.
This is feeling good, we won't provide
a target because I'm gonna assume that
if there's no target it
does my current window.
Split window, you never know.
Yeah, never mind,
split windows right here.
Shell command, okay.
All right, and
we even have starting directory,
we can do environment we can provide
environment variables really
cool by the way that you can
provide environment variables.
That means you could actually
have certain things in this.
You could like start a dB, environment
which already has all your connections and
everything.
A lot of cool things you can do here,
so I think this should probably be okay.
Looks like this split window
vertically and then let's just do this.
Now, if I'm not mistaken,
this should just work first try because
it is the only way in which I work.
So let's go like this,
let's go I just quit them again.
Let's not do that, let's quit this.
We don't need that anymore.
Let's do cheat sheet we're gonna run cheat
sheet and now remember I did it only for
the languages so
let's do this one and let's do enum.
All right, here we go.
All right, so what just happened there?
Does anyone know what happened?
I know what happened but
do you know what happened?
>> The command finished and
it closed the window.
>> Nice, good job.
That's correct, so here's a little fun
thing about TMX when you do new window.
Yes, this was pre-planned.
If I like this, echo hello, S and sleep,
one and then go like this bash C.
So that way it doesn't get all screwed up,
right.
Poop, and sleep one.
It's gonna create a new window, hello.
And after it gets done sleeping for
one second.
When that command finishes, and
it's done, well the window's done right?
It's no longer needed, so
therefore it's going to close.
So when I did this little fun thing
right here, we did a split window and
we curl cheat sheets, so
it came back with the answer, but
it was done at that point, right?
So let's go like this, let's go bash-c.
And let's just pass this into less.
Less a super-duper ultra cool program.
Okay, I'm gonna be let's see, hon,
we got a lot of escaping to do here.
Let's escape with passion and fury,
I don't think I need to escape those ones.
Let's just see,
I don't think I need to escape anything.
Let's just find out, all right.
So let's do this again.
I keep closing my VIM command there for
a second.
So let's do cheat sheet,
let's do TypeScript.
Let's do enum and there we go, yes.
First off Teamwork is backwards,
which part of me just feels very upset,
but look, our window stayed alive.
How fantastic is this awesome, right?
When I close, it's dead, right?
When I close, the ls, it dies.
For those that don't know what is,
check this out.
Let's go back to here,
let's go back to this program.
And let's just take this and go down and
just paste this a bunch of times, right?
There we go,
it's a pretty long program now.
So if I were to cat pipe,
it'd be like a really long program, right?
Like, look at that,
it's the same thing a bunch of times.
But if I were to go a cat,
this thing, pipe it into less,
it shows me what it has,
and then I can scroll down.
All right, so
hopefully that explanation of,
did you even catch the explanation
of less right there?
Hopefully you guys did,
if you guys didn't DLC.
Get out of here, [LAUGH] doing DLC, that's
what we're doing the expansion packs all
right, so let me do one more time
just in case you didn't hear it.
When I pipe that into less it will only
show me a screen full and I can use j
to go down K to go up very vim bindings
right D to jump down half page at a time.
There we go, hit q to quit.
So kinda feels more like,
it has kind of like an ad ish feel to it,
a vim ad feel to it.
So it's pretty easy to use, there's a few
things you need to know about less and
that's pretty much all you need to know.
And so let's go back into vim now.
And let's go back to
your little cheat sheet.
So there we go, so
we just piped into less, so it would work.
And then, of course, let's fix that very
poor vertical thing to make it horizontal.
And let's run it again, I close them
again, out clearly out of my element here.
Enough, and there we go.
Now I have this and so now I can scroll
around here to see what's going on.
So obviously there's nothing here.
So the moment I press Q, it quits,
it also quits the split we're back here.
That's actually pretty cool, that's
a pretty good experience right there.
Obviously I usually program
not this zoomed in.
But since I've been streaming so
much, I'm actually so
used to like having this
much zoomed in this.
It's hard for
me to program back now to like this.
I don't even know it's happening.
So for me, the splits might not work as
well because now I have weird stream brain
on, but that's actually
a pretty cool way to use it.
And not only can you do that with splits.
Let's just say you don't need
it to be that split, right?
I bet if we go back to tmux,
a man tmux, right?
And go to split window, I guarantee you,
we are gonna find, my goodness.
There it is, I bet you, we're gonna
find some sort of percentage, P percent.
Okay, so there you go, that's what it is.
So we could also do something like P 35 or
32, I guess we're doing 32.
Here, 42, right?
You can set some amount of the window
space to be able to take up.
So that means you could still
have your primary viewport and
then just quickly split it off
on the side in a smaller amount,
cuz maybe you don't need a lot of it.
And then you can do that side by
side workflow that makes sense for
just a little bit.
And there we go, I, to me, this seems like
a pretty, pretty nice little workflow.
And it's kind of fun to do on the fly too.
And so, of course, we can do
the same thing right here, right?
I can just delete that Vi, these little
curly braces, and let's go right here.
Let's paste that, all right,
this is awesome, and
we don't really need
anything up until here.
There we go, I think that's about right.
That's about right there, there we go.
We have the exact same thing, and
now we can do it for a language.
So let's just try that again,
let's cheat sheet.
Let's go to find,
then it's gonna say give me a query,
let's use exact and so there we go.
We have that 32% file,
which is pretty annoying for me.
But you can imagine if it was like
a little bit it'd be pretty easy to see
right here, right?
All right, rock on, that is awesome.
And there we go, we quit, it's gone.
It's awesome, you can transfer
between panes pretty easily.
What I have set up inside my vim or
my team ox RC.
My goodness.
Here, let's go right here, okay,
that's really obviously easy to see.
I have this right here is that I
actually have a bind Kj h now, so
it feels like them.
And then I can go up down left and
right for my pain so when I have multiple
of them I just do prefix h to
jump over prefix l the jump over,
so I added that in there.
Some t mux like pain switching,
it feels pretty good.
All right, exit, awesome.
Zooming back in or feeling good